Hello and welcome to this new tutorial.
Today we're gonna tackle the second step
of data pre-processing, which is about feature scaling.
So, to start with the step, let's first
have a quick reminder of the two best ways
of applying feature scaling.
These are standardization and normalization.
So, standardization, you subtract your observation
by the mean of all your observations in one same column
and you divide it by the standard deviation.
And then normalization, you take your observation,
you subtract it by the minimum of all your observations,
that is the minimum stock price,
and you divide it by the maximum of all the stock prices,
minus the minimum of all the stock prices.
And so according to you, what are we
going to use this time for RNN?
Well this time, it's actually recommended,
it's actually more relevant to use normalization.
Whenever you build an RNN and especially
if there is a sigmoid function as the activation function
in the output layer of you recurrent neural network,
well I recommend to apply normalization.
And therefore that's exactly what we're going to do.
We're going to apply normalization and to do this
we're going to use the min max K-load class
from the pre-processing module of the Scikit learn library.
So let's go back to Python, here we are
and therefore let's start by importing
this min max K-load class.
So we import this class from,
first the Scikit learn library, SK learn.
Then from this Scikit learn library we're going to get
into the pre-processing module, there we go.
And from this pre-processing module of
the Scikit learn library, we're gonna
import the min ax scaler class.
Alright, perfect, we have the right class.
And now from this class, we're going to create
an object of this class, which we're going
to call SC for scale.
And so Sc is gonna be an object
of this min max scaler class.
And now we have to input some arguments and as you can see,
feature range equals zero one,
that's the default feature range and copy equals through.
So that's exactly what we're going to use,
we're going to use the default argument.
The default feature range
but to make sure that we're applying
this feature range, I'm gonna include it anyway.
Feature underscore range equals zero and one.
So why zero and one?
That's because if we look at the formula again,
well you can see that with this formula
all the new scale stock prices will be between zero and one.
Alright, because this max minus min
is larger that X minus min.
Alright, so all our scaled stock prices will be between
zero and one and that's exactly what we want.
And now the last thing we need to do, is of course
to apply this SC object, which is the scaler on our data,
to effectively apply this normalization.
And to do this well, first I'm going to introduce
a new variable, which will be this scale training set.
And I'm going to give it a different name because
it is recommended to keep your original datasets.
So I'm going to keep this original training set
with the non-scaled values,
the original values of the stock prices.
And therefore this new variable I'm going to introduce
is going to be training set underscore scaled.
Alright, and now to get this scaled training set,
this normalized training set.
Well I simply need to take my SC object
and then apply the fit transform method.
Which is a method of the min max scaler class,
which will not only fit your object SC to the training set,
which we will input as argument.
And also transform it, that is scale it.
So what does fit mean exactly?
Well, fit means that it just going to get the min
of the data, that is the minimum stock price
and the maximum stock price,
to be able to apply this formula.
That's simply what it means.
And then with the transform method, it's going to compute
for each of the stock prices of the training set,
the scaled stock prices according to this formula.
Alright, so that's what it will do
and now to specify that we want to fit our object
to the training set and transform the scale
to the training set, well of course
we need to input here, training set.
Alright, so let's have a look at our
new scaled stock prices,
so I'm selecting these three line and execute.
And there we go, we obtained our training set scaled
and if we have a look at it, well we can see that indeed,
all the stock prices are now
normalized between zero and one.
Of course, everything seems to make perfect sense.
The last values are close to one because remember,
the stock price was going up between 2012 and 2016.
So all good, we have now the right values for our future
recurrent neural network that we're going to build.
We're ready to move onto the next step,
which will be about creating a specific data structure,
that's the most important step actually of data
pre-processing for recurrent neural networks.
We're going to create a data structure specifying
what the RNN will need to remember
when predicting the next stock price.
And this is called the number of time steps.
This is super important to have the right number
of time steps because a wrong number of time steps
could lead to over fitting or nonsense predictions.
Alright, so that's what we'll take care of
in the next tutorial and until then, enjoy Deep Learning.